GIT and GITHUB Course

Git - Distribbuted Version control system (Local repository).
Github - Repository hosting service (Multiple people can work together,collaboration)

git init - create new repository
.git is a hidden file which stores all the git versions files

When initalizing the new repository a new branch is created.

Change name of the branch with the following command (git branch -m main).

we can check in which branch we are currently in by using following command
- git branch

Git Object Types
1.Blob - Files
2.Tree - Folders/Directories
3.Commit - (Snapshots of your projects) 
4.Annotated Tag - Actual pointers

Every git object has specific Hash value (HexDecimall Format) SHA1.


Working Directory - Folders where files are located
Staging Area (index) - 
Git Repository - When things get commited then can see multiple folders inside the objects


Most Common Operations

Working Directory > git add > Staging Area > git commit > Git repository.

Git repository > git checkout > Working Directory

git status - Can check the commits 
git add filename

What is commit

when you commit changes git as the author name email.
Every git object has hash value in it.

To Check whether the global name is configured or not.

git config --list 

Commit Changes

git commit -m "Your message"

git branch 

Exploring commit history

git log (to check the history of commit)

To add all the files in the staging area use below command

git add .

Basic Git Commands

git status - Current state of git repository
git add - adding files to staging area
git commit - Write changes to git repository
git log - History of changes (commits)
git checkout - Checkour commit or branch

Checking out commits and branches

git checkout hash value

File tracking statuses

Untracked 
Unmodified
Modified
Staged

Staging and commiting the Changes

git commit -a -m ""

Branches and Merging of Branches

Merging process

1. Create a new feature branch from main branch
2. Makes changes in the new branch and commit them.
3. Checkout main branch(receiving branch) 
4.Merge feature branch to the current receiving branch

git merge <Feature Branch>

Branches merging in action

1.Create a feature branch
2.Created a text file in feature branch (added and commited it).
3.Checkout to main branch
4.Created a text file in main branch (added and commited it).
5.Merged feature1 into Main branch.

Exploring commits tree using graph option

git log --graph (Can check the graphical representaion)

How to delete the branch

git branch -d branchname


GITHUB and Repository Hosting Services Overview

github repository hosting service


Creating a remote repository at Github

Pushing from local to remote

Commiting to the GITHUB and pulling to the local repository

Can directly make changes in the github by editing the file commiting the changes

git pull 

Above command is used to pull the request and make it synchornize in 
both the Git and in GITHUB


Exploring and Reading Git Objects

ls .git/objects/61

git cat-file -t SHA1 

git cat-file -p SHA1

Reading the Contents of Headers

ls .git

cat .git/HEAD

Above command is used to ref the specific branches